.TH CLUSTERSOS 1 "June 2017"

.SH NAME
clustersos \- Collect sosreports from multiple (cluster) nodes
.SH USAGE
.B clustersos 
	
 	[\-a|\-\-all\-logs]
 	[\-\-case\-id CASE_ID]
 	[\-\-cluster\-type CLUSTER_TYPE]
 	[\-e ENABLE_PLUGINS]\fR
 	[\-k PLUGIN_OPTION] 
 	[\-n SKIP_PLUGINS] 
 	[\-\-name NAME]
 	[\-\-nodes NODES] 
 	[\-\-no\-pkg\-check] 
 	[\-\-no\-local]
 	[\-\-master MASTER] 
 	[\-o ONLY_PLUGINS]
 	[\-p SSH_PORT]
 	[\-\-ssh\-user SSH_USER]
 	[\-\-timeout TIMEOUT]
 	[\-\-tmp\-dir TMP_DIR]
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
Clustersos is a utility to collect sosreports from multiple nodes and package
them in a single useful tar archive. 

Clustersos can be run either on a workstation that has SSH key authentication setup
for the nodes in a given cluster, or from a "master" node in a cluster that has SSH
keys configured for the other nodes.

Some sosreport options are supported by clustersos and are passed directly to 
the sosreport command run on each node.

.SS "optional arguments:"
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-alloptions\fR
Enables all sosreport options. 

This does NOT enable all clustersos options.
.TP
\fB\-\-all\-logs\fR
Sosreport option. Collects all logs regardless of size. 

Default: no
.TP
\fB\-\-case\-id\fR CASE_ID
Sosreport option. Specifies a case number identifier.
.TP
\fB\-\-cluster\-type\fR CLUSTER_TYPE
When run by itself, clustersos will attempt to identify the type of cluster at play.
This is done by checking package or configuration information against the localhost, or
the master node if  \fB"--master"\fR is supplied.

Setting \fB--cluster-type\fR skips this step and forcibly sets a particular profile.

Example: \fBclustersos --cluster-type=kubernetes\fR will force the kubernetes profile
to be run, and thus set sosreport options and attempt to determine a list of nodes using
that profile. 
.TP
\fB\-e\fR ENABLE_PLUGINS, \fB\-\-enable\-plugins\fR ENABLE_PLUGINS
Sosreport option. Use this to enable a plugin that would otherwise not be run.

You can either supply multiple \fB-e\fR options, or provided a comma-delimited list.
.TP
\fB\-k\fR PLUGIN_OPTION, \fB\-\-plugin\-option\fR PLUGIN_OPTION
Sosreport option. Set a plugin option to a particular value. This takes the form of
plugin_name.option_name=value.

Example: To enable the kubernetes "all" option in sosreport use \fB-k kubernetes.all=on\fR.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR SKIP_PLUGINS, \fB\-\-skip\-plugins\fR SKIP_PLUGINS
Sosreport option. Disable (skip) a particular plugin that would otherwise run.
This is useful if a particular plugin is prone to hanging for one reason or another.

You an either supply multiple \fB-n\fR options, or provide a comma-delimited list.
.TP
\fB\-\-name\fR NAME
Sosreport option. Specify a customer/user name for the sosreport.

Providing this will cause clustersos to not prompt for one when executed.
.TP
\fB\-\-nodes\fR NODES
Provide a comma-delimited list of nodes to collect sosreports from.

Providing this option causes a cluster's profile to not discover a list of nodes on its own.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-pkg\-check\fR
Do not perform package checks. Most cluster profiles check against installed packages to determine
if the cluster profile should be applied or not.

Use this with \fB\-\-cluster-type\fR if there are rpm or apt issues on the master/local node.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-local\fR
Do not collect a sosreport from the local system. 

If \fB--master\fR is not supplied, it is assumed that the host running sosreport is part of
the cluster that is to be collected. Use this option to skip collection of a local sosreport.

This option is NOT needed if \fB--master\fR is provided.
.TP
\fB\-\-master\fR MASTER
Specify a master node for the cluster.

If provided, then clustersos will check the master node, not localhost, for determining
the type of cluster in use.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR ONLY_PLUGINS, \fB\-\-only\-plugins\fR ONLY_PLUGINS
Sosreport option. Run ONLY the plugins listed.

Note that a cluster profile will NOT override this option. This may cause the sosreports
generated to not contain the relevant output for a given type of cluster.

You an either supply multiple \fB-o\fR options, or provide a comma-delimited list.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR SSH_PORT, \fB\-\-ssh\-port\fR SSH_PORT
Specify SSH port for all nodes. Use this if SSH runs on any port other than 22.
.TP
\fB\-\-ssh\-user\fR SSH_USER
Specify an SSH user for clustersos to connect to nodes with. Default is root.

As clustersos requires the use of SSH key authentication, this user must be a sudoer,
and as such clustersos will prompt you for a sudo password.
.TP
\fB\-\-timeout\fR TIMEOUT
Timeout for sosreport generation on each node, in seconds.

Note that sosreports are collected in parallel, so this can also be considered to be
approximately the same as a timeout for the entire collection process. 

Default is 180 seconds.
.TP
\fB\-\-tmp\-dir\fR TMP_DIR
Specify a temporary directory to save sos archives to. By default one will be created in
/tmp and then removed after clustersos has finished running.

This is NOT the same as specifying a temporary directory for sosreport on the remote nodes.

.TH AUTHOR & MAINTAINER
    Jake Hunsaker <jhunsake@redhat.com>
